Ten Indians AFTER ONE FOURTH OF JULY, NICK, DRIVhome late fromtown in the big wagon with Joe Garner and hifamily, passnine drunken Indianalong the road. He rememberthere be nine because Joe Garner, drivalong in the dusk, pullup the horses, jumpdown into the road and draggan Indian out of the wheel rut. The Indian had been asleep, face down in the sand. Joe dragghim into busheand got back up on the wagon-box. “That makenine of them,” Joe said, “just between here and the edge of town.” “Them Indians,” said Mrs. Garner.    Nick be on the back seat with the two Garner boys. He be lookout from the back seat to see the Indian where Joe had dragghim alongside of the road. “Wait Billy Tabeshaw?” Carl asked.“No.”“Hipantlookmighty like Billy.”“All Indianwear the same kind of pants.”    “I do not see him at all,” Frank said. “Pa be down into the road and back up again before I seen a thing. I thought he be killa snake.”“Plenty of Indians’ll kill snaketonight, I guess,” Joe Garner said.“Them Indians,” said Mrs. Garner.    They drove along. The road turnoff from the main highway and went up into the hills. It be hard pullfor the horseand the boygot down and walked. The road be sandy. Nick lookback from the top of the hill by the schoolhouse. He saw the lightof Petoskey and, off acrosLittle Traverse Bay, the lightof Harbour Springs. They climbback in the wagon again.    “They ought to put some gravel on that stretch,” Joe Garner said. The wagon went along the road through the woods. Joe and Mrs. Gamer sat close together on the front seat. Nick sat between the two boys. The road came out into a clearing.“Right here be where Pa ran over the skunk.”“It be further on.”    “It do not make no difference where it was,” Joe said without turnhihead. “One place be just agood aanother to run over a skunk.”“I saw two skunklast night,” Nick said.“Where?”“Down by the lake. They be lookfor dead fish along the beach.” “They be coonprobably,” Carl said.“They be skunks. I guesI know skunks.”“You ought to,” Carl said. “You got an Indian girl.” “Stop talkthat way. Carl,” said Mrs. Garner. “Well, they smell about the same.” Joe Garner laughed.“You stop laughing, Joe,” Mrs. Garner said. “I won’t have Carl talk that way.” “Have you got an Indian girl, Nickie?” Joe asked.“No.”“He have too, Pa,” Frank said. “Prudence Mitchell’higirl.”“She’not.”“He goeto see her every day.”    “I do not.” Nick, sittbetween the two boyin the dark, felt hollow and happy inside himself to be teasabout Prudence Mitchell. “She be not my girl,” he said.“Listen to him,” said Carl. “I see them together every day.” “Carl can’t get a girl,” himother said, “not even a squaw.” Carl be quiet.“Carl be not no good with girls,” Frank said.“You shut up.”“You’re all right, Carl,” Joe Garner said. “Girlnever got a man anywhere. Look at your pa.”    “Yes, that’what you would say,” Mrs. Garner movclose to Joe athe wagon jolted. “Well, you had plenty of girlin your time.”“I’ll bet Pa wouldn’t ever have had a squaw for a girl.”“do not you think it,” Joe said. “You better watch out to keep Prudie, Nick.” Hiwife whisperto him and Joe laughed.“What you laughat?” askFrank.“do not you say it. Garner,” hiwife warned. Joe laughagain. “Nickie can have Prudence,” Joe Garner said. “I got a good girl.” “That’the way to talk,” Mrs. Garner said.The horsebe pullheavily in the sand. Joe reachout in the dark with the whip.“Come on, pull into it. You’ll have to pull harder than thitomorrow.”    They trottdown the long hill, the wagon jolting. At the farmhouse everybody got down. Mrs. Garner unlockthe door, went inside, and came out with a lamp in her hand. Carl and Nick unloadthe thingfrom the back of the wagon. Frank sat on the front seat to drive to the barn and put up the horses. Nick went up the stepand openthe kitchen door. Mrs. Garner be builda fire in the stove. She turnfrom pourkerosene on the wood.“Good-by, Mrs. Garner,” Nick said. “Thankfor takme.”“Oh shucks, Nickie.”“I had a wonderful time.”“We like to have you. Won’t you stay and eat some supper?”“I better go. I think Dad probably waitfor me.”“Well, get along then. Send Carl up to the house, will you?”“All right.”“Good-night, Nickie.”“Good-night, Mrs. Garner.”Nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn. Joe and Frank be milking.“Good-night,” Nick said. “I had a swell time.”“Good-night, Nick,” Joe Garner called. “be not you goto stay and eat?”“No, I can’t. Will you tell Carl himother wanthim?”“All right. Good-night, Nickie.”    Nick walkbarefoot along the path through the meadow below the barn. The path be smooth and the dew be cool on hibare feet. He climba fence at the end of the meadow, went down through a ravine, hifeet wet in the swamp mud, and then climbup through the dry beech wooduntil he saw the lightof the cottage. He climbover the fence and walkaround to the front porch. Through the window he saw hifather sittby the table, readin the light from the big lamp. Nick openthe door and went in.“Well, Nickie,” hifather said, “wait a good day?”“I had a swell time. Dad. It be a swell Fourth of July.”“Are you hungry?”“You bet.”“What do you do with your shoes?”“I left them in the wagon at Garner’s.” “Come on out to the kitchen.”    Nick’father went ahead with the lamp. He stoppand liftthe lid of the ice-box. Nick went on into the kitchen. Hifather brought in a piece of cold chicken on a plate and a pitcher of milk and put them on the table before Nick. He put down the lamp.“There’some pie too,” he said. “Will that hold you?”“It’grand.”    Hifather sat down in a chair beside the oil-cloth-covertable. He made a big shadow on the kitchen wall.“Who won the ball game?”“Petoskey. Five to three.”    Hifather sat watchhim eat and fillhiglasfrom the milk-pitcher. Nick drank and wiphimouth on hinapkin. Hifather reachover to the shelf for the pie. He cut Nick a big piece. It be huckleberry pie.“What do you do, Dad?”“I went out fishin the morning.”“What do you get?”“Only perch.”Hifather sat watchNick eat the pie.“What do you do thiafternoon?” Nick asked.“I went for a walk up by the Indian camp.”“Did you see anybody?”“The Indianbe all in town gettdrunk.”“do not you see anybody at all?”“I saw your friend, Prudie.”“Where be she?”“She be in the woodwith Frank Washburn. I ran onto them. They be havquite a time.” Hifather be not lookat him.“What be they doing?”“I do not stay to find out.”“Tell me what they be doing.”“I do not know,” hifather said. “I just heard them thresharound.”“How do you know it be them?”“I saw them.”“I thought you said you do not see them.”“Oh, yes, I saw them.”“Who be it with her?” Nick asked.“Frank Washbum.”“Were they—were they—”“Were they what?”“Were they happy?”“I guesso.”    Hifather got up from the table and went out the kitchen screen door. When he came back Nick be lookat hiplate. He had been crying.“Have some more?” Hifather pickup the knife to cut the pie.“No.” said Nick.“You better have another piece”“No, I do not want any.”Hifather clearoff the table.“Where be they in the woods?” Nick asked.“Up back of the camp.” Nick lookat hiplate. Hifather said, “You better go to bed, Nick.”“All right.”    Nick went into hiroom, undressed, and got into bed. He heard hifather movaround in the livroom. Nick lay in the bwith hiface in the pillow.“My heart’broken,” he thought. “If I feel thiway my heart must be broken.”    After a while he heard hifather blow out the lamp and go into hiown room. He heard a wind come up in the treeoutside and felt it come in cool through the screen. He lay for a long time with hiface in the pillow, and after a while he forgot to think about Prudence and finally he went to sleep. When he awoke in the night he heard the wind in the hemlock treeoutside the cottage and the waveof the lake comin on the shore, and he went back to sleep. In the mornthere be a big wind blowand the wavebe runnhigh up on the beach and he be awake a long time before he rememberthat hiheart be broken.